# Extract & Transform Script Overview

## Introduction
In this folder, you can find the SalesReport.csv, which is the Kaggle public dataset obtained from the link provided in the Project Overview README file. Additionally, you'll find the Extract and Transform Python Script, which is responsible for transforming the data from the original CSV file and preparing it for loading into the SQL database.

## Note
You can skip this step and use the database dump, provided in folder 2, instead to create the database and insert all the data.

## Python Script Overview

### Libraries Used
The script imports the following libraries:
- **Pandas:** Used for reading, cleaning, and writing CSV files.
- **Datetime:** Utilized to reformat date and time data from the main CSV to the accepted SQL date and time format.
- **Random:** Used to assign prices to items in the dataset. The script allows for setting a seed for randomness, enabling data changes reflected in the final dashboard.

### Script Execution
Again be sure to go to the database folder and delete the csv on it, then run the script and you will see how a csv file is created for each of the tables in the databse folder.

- **Script Note** 
At the beginning of the script, there's a seed value. Changing this value will result in different prices being assigned to each product. Note that to see changes reflected in the dashboard, you need to run the entire project and import the data into Power BI again.

### Table Creation and Normalization
The script creates tables with data from the original dataset, each following normalization principles. Here's an explanation for each table:

- **Ship Modes:** 
  - **ID:** Primary key identifying each ship mode.
  - **Ship Mode:** Describes how the order was shipped, including different modes like same-day delivery or standard delivery.

- **Customers:** 
  - **Customer ID:** Primary key for identifying each customer.
  - **Customer Name, Segment:** Details customer information, such as name and segment (e.g., consumer, home office purchase, corporate purchase).

- **Products:** 
  - **Product ID:** Primary key for identifying each product.
  - **Product Name, Category, Sub-Category, Price:** Includes details about each product, including its category, sub-category, and price.

- **Orders:** 
  - **Order ID:** Primary key for identifying each order.
  - **Order Date, Ship Date, Address, State:** Contains order-related information, such as order and ship dates, address, and state.
  - **Ship Mode ID:** Foreign key linking to the Ship Modes table.
  - **Customer ID:** Foreign key linking to the Customers table.

- **Order Details:** 
  - **Order ID, Product ID:** Foreign keys connecting to Orders and Products tables. This table does not have a primary key because this is an intermediary table between a many to many relationship between orders and products.
  - **Quantity Ordered, Total Cost:** Contains order details, such as quantity ordered and total cost.

## Database Flowchart
An image of the database flowchart is attached to visualize how the database will be created in SQL.
